[Music]
ten driving hacks that will save you gas
money can you imagine your life without
a car it gives you the luxury of going
places in private fast well not during
rush hour but still and efficient way
however like all good things it has a
cost unless your car is electric and
super eco-friendly you most definitely
spend a lot of money on gas moreover
there is a direct connection between
mileage and the frequency of maintenance
services so the more you drive the more
it costs brightside put together 10
lifehacks that will help you to cut not
only fuel but also maintenance costs
first of all let's do some brainstorming
why is gas so expensive because oil is
that's right crude oil to be precise it
makes up 72 percent of gasoline price we
pay the remaining 28 percent for
distribution refining and taxes the
reasons for gas prices to rise are the
weakening dollar natural disasters and
simple rules of supply and demand
prices rise when demand is bigger than
supply prices usually drop down in the
winter when fewer people are travelling
across the country we can hardly affect
any of the things we just mentioned but
we can't affect our choice when buying a
car some cars are less fuel-efficient
than others but we still love them and
want to have them they are ultra
high-end luxury cars and large vans and
SUVs sports cars are already very
expensive themselves and also require
you to feed their turbocharged engines
which create more horsepower if you
don't have a sports car but paying for
gas is still a nightmare then you
probably own one of the best-selling
cars in America Toyota Camry Corolla
Prius and Honda Civic McCord and CRV
give this video a thumbs up if we
guessed it right
well we hate to tell you this your car
is a gas guzzler does it mean you have
to replace it maybe in the future when
the time is right but for now we are
going to offer you a solution here is a
list of 10 driving light packs that will
save you gas money number 10
don't put the pedal to the metal we can
see a lot of drivers on the roads who
just love to slam on the acceleration
but in driving school we were told that
acceleration and braking should be done
smoothly it was not just because the
driving instructor hated your on and off
abrupt riving style or was afraid you
would damage their car it was actually a
valuable fuel saving lesson it is a good
idea to travel at a constant speed
around 50 miles per hour and in the
highest gear the next time you want to
get in front of that annoying car in a
traffic jam remember it will probably
not take you any further than the
traffic lights anyway and your gas bill
will not please you later when you
accelerate sharply it makes your car
consume more energy so fuel consumption
also increases if your car has an
automatic gearbox it will do all the
hard work for you
because it knows best number 9
use cruise control on the highway your
vehicle will consume much less fuel if
you follow speed limits and use cruise
control rather than accelerating on each
open road section in case you are very
new to the driving hold cruise control
is a smart system which automatically
controls the speed of your vehicle most
cars use about 20% less fuel if you
drive at 55 miles per hour compared to
70 miles per hour to cope with wind drag
your car has to increase engine speed
increasing fuel consumption think of it
a speeding ever really helped you it
might save you a few minutes but it will
also cost you and increase your chances
of getting in an accident be smart about
it
[Music]
number eight undergo servicing on-time
careful driving won't help you save much
money if your car burns oil has
imbalanced tires and loose belts have
you ever read your owner's manual
most definitely not because who likes
owner's manuals well it is a good idea
to consult it before something terrible
happens not after it will tell you how
often you should tune up your car change
belts and oil in fact the oil filter and
oil should be changed every 4,500 miles
choose the correct oil by the way it is
also written in the manual don't forget
to replace the plugs and air filter to
avoid additional expenses do this on
time otherwise it can lead to engine
failure and that kind of repair is a
expansive don't put it off till tomorrow
and create a maintenance schedule your
car will say thank you for that
[Music]
number seven turn off the air
conditioning using the AC in your car or
not is really a matter of choice some
people are so used to air cooling
systems on they are afraid of
overheating even in cool weather for
some it's just a natural instinct to
turn it on while inside the vehicle
everyone must decide for themselves
which is more important comfort or fuel
economy with the air conditioner turned
on fuel consumption increases by 15% on
average the other electrical appliances
are not so fuel hungry so if you turn
off the aircon you will save
approximately one Halon of gas per 100
miles try some natural tricks to keep
your car cool simply try to park it in
the shade and roll the windows down for
a bit for the air to go in and out
[Music]
number six make your route logistically
efficient if you plan your route
efficiently it will help you save on gas
expenses especially during the winter
ones a cold engine will consume more
fuel for the first five miles or so try
to combine all your daily errands into
one big trip not to warm up the engine a
few times a day we all mentioned we are
great at multitasking in our CVS so this
is a good time to show off you can
actually do it
drop your mail off at the post office
get your coat from the dry cleaners and
drive yourself to the gym all in one
trip we believe you can do it we are
halfway through the list do you want to
know why carrying a tent in your car may
turn it into a gas guzzler in that case
give us thumbs up and keep watching
number five don't drive when it rains
rain might seem romantic as you are
listening to it from the comfort of your
home or even your car raindrops keep
falling on my head tune plays in your
head you are inspired and ready to hit
the roads however it is a good idea not
to drive in the rain first of all there
is a high risk of an accident apart from
that fuel consumption also gets higher
on dry days the vehicle consumes a lot
of energy when accelerating to cope with
the wind drag on rainy days the water
resistance on the road
is even higher while your tires normally
just move the car
wet weather makes them do an extra job
they must also carry on through the
precipitation on the road water makes
the tires transmission oil and axle oils
cool down and become less efficient
number four monitor your tire pressure
properly inflated tires provide an
optimal braking path it might sound
strange but it's true to get the best
out of your car get the highest possible
pressure in your tires it will make your
rolling resistance and gas mileage
better if the tires are under-inflated
by at least 0.1 atm it can cause fuel
consumption to increase by two to three
percent that's why it's not enough to
pump up your tires just once you should
monitor the level of pressure in the
tires and keep it in accordance with the
recommended level especially in cold
weather number three
remove unnecessary weight some drivers
prefer to carry everything in their car
regardless of whether they need it or
not are you one of them it's okay to
admit it hit thumbs up if you have your
entire life in your trunk however it is
better to unload it and keep only
necessary things such as a spare wheel a
tire jack and car keys the more weight
your vehicle carries the more fuel it
consumes number two keep an eye on gas
prices today the internet offers us a
solution to almost any problem that is
logical and easy to save gas money look
for affordable gas websites like gas
buddy and gas price watch will help you
keep an eye out for the best gas prices
around you gas buddy is also available
as an app for your phone plus there are
more mobile apps you can try so that you
don't have to drive 12 miles from your
home to save a penny a gallon
[Music]
number one always stay alert on the road
this life hack sounds like common sense
and you cannot possibly overrate common
sense if you stay alert on the road you
won't have to hit the brakes abruptly
because you will see obstacles and
danger coming your way if you pay
attention at the traffic lights and road
signs along the route you take daily you
will also spare some time and annoying
stops you might even be able to guess
when the traffic lights turn green or
red and adjust your speed to fit in
watching fellow drivers actions can also
help when there brake lights turn on you
can get ready to hit the brakes smoothly
did you find our tips useful let us know
by clicking thumbs up if we get to
50,000 likes we'll make a video about
driving habits everyone should know in
order to keep their cars safe join us on
the bright side
[Music]